Models are not perfect predictors of prices and returns. Though the MSM proves to be a better model in some respect to GARCH (1,1) and the original Bacheliers random walk model, it still has its limitations. With the scope of this project, it cannot be said for sure what contributed to some of the MSMs weak points (simulations of tail index and the regression for the Canadian dollar). Dealing with the most volatile currency due to high rates of inflation in the past, both the MSM and GARCH are successful in capturing the changing volatilities and simulating the Brazilian Real. With further study, it can be determined whether or not a data series with specific properties can be modeled better by using MSM instead of GARCH.
One cannot predict exactly what the price or return of an asset will be in a week or even on the next day. However, speculations can be made and fractals are a great tool to analyze and try to imitate what properties financial data possesses in terms of volatility clustering, large price swings and interdependency. Both MSM and GARCH can be enhanced further with more complex specifications, accommodating a wide range of data series. Though cannot predict prices, the MSM and the GARCH are used to model stochastic volatility which is instrumental in the understanding of the financial markets where volatilities change based on the time periods. One has to have not only knowledge and expertise of the asset of interest but he/she also needs the analytical skills required to process a huge amount of data that the financial markets produce.
Since the MSM and the GARCH perform well in most cases, further applications of the two techniques can be utilized. For example, one could potentially put together a stock portfolio containing different stocks moving in different directions to lower the risk and maximize the return of the portfolio. Also, with the power to model volatility quite accurately, the result portfolio could be attractive to potential investors. The most this project has done is to show how volatile and risky the financial markets are and to present two models to quantify that risk better than some common methods. Most of the time when people, especially investors, chase after profits, they often underestimate the risk markets inherently possess. Until a better model arrives, an investor should fully know the economic forces that drive the asset returns and know how much risk he/she is partaking.
